content/books/we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat/index.md, before:

---
title: "We'll Prescribe You a Cat"
date: 2025-01-06T00:00:00-08:00
draft: false
tagline: A cat a day keeps the doctor away—discover the healing magic of feline companionship.
summary: In a hidden Kyoto clinic, patients find renewal and hope through the power of cats as unconventional therapy in this heartwarming tale.
tags: [Syou Ishida]
layout: book
image: ###IMAGE###
image:
  - ###IMAGE###
asin: "B0CY1D8G7K"
yaml: we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat
author: Syou Ishida

---

Discover the award-winning, bestselling Japanese novel, "We'll Prescribe You a Cat", a vivid journey into the transformative power of feline companionship. Written by Syou Ishida, this enchanting story centers around the Kokoro Clinic for the Soul, tucked away in a narrow alley in Kyoto. The clinic is a sanctuary for those lost and struggling, where it prescribes a unique form of therapy: spending time with a cat.

As patients embark on their unconventional treatment, they experience profound personal changes catalyzed by their empathetic feline guides. From a disillusioned businessman rediscovering joy in physical labor to a young girl navigating the labyrinth of elementary school relationships, each character’s journey unfolds with humor, warmth, and insight into the complexity of human emotions.

Throughout its 301 pages, "We'll Prescribe You a Cat" beautifully illustrates the healing bond between humans and animals, showcasing how even the most resistant souls can find comfort and clarity through unconditional love. The novel enjoys an average rating of 3.84 from nearly 10,000 ratings, marking it as both a critical and popular success.

Syou Ishida’s narrative interweaves stories of resilience and hope, making it a treasured read for anyone seeking a little whimsy in their emotional recovery. As patients confront their past traumas alongside their furry companions, they learn that healing often lies in the most unexpected places.

Perfect for cat lovers and those who appreciate stories rich with character development and heart, this book is a reminder of the quiet magic pets bring into our lives.

Commit message:

Transform book metadata and summaries for "Absolution" and "We'll Prescribe You a Cat" 📚✨
- Updated `absolution-southern-reach-4/index.md`:
  - Revised book information including **author**, **ASIN**, and added a **Goodreads link**.
  - Enhanced **summary** and **tagline** for better context and intrigue.
  - Adjusted image format and URLs to make them more consistent.
  - Improved overall formatting and removed redundant lines to streamline content.

- Updated `we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat/index.md`:
  - Added detailed book info with **author**, **ASIN**, and included a **Goodreads link**.
  - Enhanced **summary** to provide clarity on the book's healing theme through feline companionship.
  - Refined **tagline** and overall formatting for better reader engagement.

- Modified `grab_read_books.py`:
  - Streamlined **metadata creation** for posts using a new `create_post_metadata` function.
  - Switched from using a templated post structure to using the **frontmatter** library, ensuring cleaner code and easier maintenance.
  - Improved logging messages for clarity and reduced redundant error handling.

These changes improve the consistency and clarity of the book entries, making it easier for readers to find and engage with content. The new metadata function in the script enhances maintainability by organizing post creation, and the overall restructuring helps maintain the code going forward. Plus, who doesn’t want a cat to heal their soul? 🐱❤️

content/books/we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat/index.md, after:

---
asin: B0CY1D8G7K
author: Syou Ishida
average_rating: '3.84'
date: '2025-01-06T00:00:00-08:00'
draft: false
goodreads_link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209895723-we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat
image:
- B0CY1D8G7K.jpg
image_url: https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/P/B0CY1D8G7K.01._SCLZZZZZZZ.jpg
layout: book
num_pages: '301'
review_rating: '5'
started_at: '2025-01-02T00:00:00-08:00'
summary: Discover the transformative power of cats in Syou Ishida's heartwarming novel
  that blends human emotion with the charm of feline companionship.
tagline: A tale where love, healing, and feline companionship converge.
tags:
- Syou Ishida
title: We'll Prescribe You a Cat
title_without_series: We'll Prescribe You a Cat
yaml: we-ll-prescribe-you-a-cat
---

In "We'll Prescribe You a Cat," award-winning author Syou Ishida invites readers into the enchanting world of the Kokoro Clinic for the Soul, nestled in a quaint alley of Kyoto. This novel hinges on the whimsical yet profound premise that cats serve as life-changing therapy for those in distress. With an average rating of 3.84 and over 9,000 reviews, this international bestseller is a celebration of the healing power of the human-animal bond. Ishida masterfully weaves together the stories of various patients at the clinic: a businessman discovering joy in labor, a young girl facing school challenges, and a geisha grappling with loss, all navigated through their unexpected feline companions. Each narrative illuminates the ways in which these cats guide the characters toward healing, self-discovery, and hope. As readers delve deeper into the pages, they experience the blend of charm, emotional depth, and subtle magic that only Ishida can deliver. This 301-page novel promises to touch the hearts of anyone who has felt the soothing presence of a cat in their lives.
