content/post/2024-11-06-again.md, before:

---
title: "Again"
date: 2024-11-06T18:00:00-05:00
description: ""
draft: false
---

We find ourselves here again.

Over the past 20 years that I have had this blog, I have written entries about the disappointment of the world not going the way I had hoped.

Bush, 9/11, Covid, etc. These are all experiences where I had hoped we as a people would choose one way, and instead we went another way.

**This time feels different.** Maybe it is because Trump has stated so many things that seem insane: mass deportations, political violence against his "enemies," a threat that we will never have to vote again, a failed coup, etc. Many things that I always feared would happen in the US, but never thought would actually happen.

Not to get too hyperbolic, but **we may be fucked**.

## How to deal?

I have no idea. I can tell you one of the ways I handle shit like this: I read.

I read a lot. In almost all cases, reading has helped me through these times of strife.

Here is my hastily curated "we may be fucked" reading list. Maybe it will help you. The ideas in these books certainly helped me. It didn't make me feel better tho.

### How we got here:

1. [These Truths](https://amzn.to/3AvZBAE) by Jill Lepore
2. [The Power Worshippers: Inside the Dangerous Rise of Religious Nationalism](https://amzn.to/3ArehRH) by Katherine Stewart

### Where we may be going

1. [Parable of the Sower](https://amzn.to/4elihRJ) by Octavia E. Butler
2. [The Deluge](https://amzn.to/4fyo07C) by Stephen Markley
3. [American War](https://amzn.to/3NUHwPZ) by Omar El Akkad
4. [Nuclear War: A Scenario](https://amzn.to/3UAKT1Z) by Annie Jacobsen

## Ugh

Yep.

## Now what?

No idea. Here is a good [post](https://www.popehat.com/p/and-yet-it-moves) that helped me think through where we may be going. It isn't pretty.

![](/images/posts/worse.jpg)

Good luck.

Commit message:

Updated description and added reading list context 📚✨
- Changed the `description` field in `content/post/2024-11-06-again.md` to provide a clearer insight into the blog post's theme of reflecting on current global uncertainties through reading.
- This change aims to make the post more engaging and informative for readers, attracting attention to the curated reading list that accompanies the author's reflections.
- Overall, this enhances the blog's content by offering readers a glimpse into the author's coping mechanisms during tumultuous times, which may resonate with those sharing similar feelings.

Goodbye blandness, hello depth! 🎉👋

content/post/2024-11-06-again.md, after:

---
title: "Again"
date: 2024-11-06T18:00:00-05:00
description: "Reflecting on the unsettling state of the world and feeling a deep sense of uncertainty, I find some solace in reading — here’s a list of books that have helped me process where we’ve been and where we might be headed."
draft: false
---

We find ourselves here again.

Over the past 20 years that I have had this blog, I have written entries about the disappointment of the world not going the way I had hoped.

Bush, 9/11, Covid, etc. These are all experiences where I had hoped we as a people would choose one way, and instead we went another way.

**This time feels different.** Maybe it is because Trump has stated so many things that seem insane: mass deportations, political violence against his "enemies," a threat that we will never have to vote again, a failed coup, etc. Many things that I always feared would happen in the US, but never thought would actually happen.

Not to get too hyperbolic, but **we may be fucked**.

## How to deal?

I have no idea. I can tell you one of the ways I handle shit like this: I read.

I read a lot. In almost all cases, reading has helped me through these times of strife.

Here is my hastily curated "we may be fucked" reading list. Maybe it will help you. The ideas in these books certainly helped me. It didn't make me feel better tho.

### How we got here:

1. [These Truths](https://amzn.to/3AvZBAE) by Jill Lepore
2. [The Power Worshippers: Inside the Dangerous Rise of Religious Nationalism](https://amzn.to/3ArehRH) by Katherine Stewart

### Where we may be going

1. [Parable of the Sower](https://amzn.to/4elihRJ) by Octavia E. Butler
2. [The Deluge](https://amzn.to/4fyo07C) by Stephen Markley
3. [American War](https://amzn.to/3NUHwPZ) by Omar El Akkad
4. [Nuclear War: A Scenario](https://amzn.to/3UAKT1Z) by Annie Jacobsen

## Ugh

Yep.

## Now what?

No idea. Here is a good [post](https://www.popehat.com/p/and-yet-it-moves) that helped me think through where we may be going. It isn't pretty.

![](/images/posts/worse.jpg)

Good luck.
