content/post/2024-12-04-new-theme.md, before:

---
date: 2024-12-04 18:00:00-05:00
title: New year, new theme
description:
    Finally updating the theme on the site to something clean and minimal.
    Inspired by bearblog and write.as, making tweaks for better accessibility
    and introducing rotating color schemes.
draft: false
tags:
    - design
    - theme
    - accessibility
---

I know I know. It isn’t quite **2025**. I was getting excited.

For the past few months have been unhappy with how messy my blog has been. It isn’t terrible, and it is my own fault. I whipped up about 5 different really boring “themes” that I didn’t really like until I found something that I am happy with.

## ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•！

What I settled on is something I have been looking at for ages.

This theme is a very light approximation of the design of [bear blog](https://bearblog.dev/) - which I have always admired, [write.as](https://write.as/), and the design of other super minimal writing platforms.

I started with the simple [bearcub](https://github.com/clente/hugo-bearcub/tree/main) theme from [@clente](https://github.com/clente), and tweaked and tweaked. Eventually getting to a place I was happy with. It is familiar enough, but fits my needs perfectly.

## Now we can begin

I do this every few years. The last time I think was 2017. Unsure exactly. I tried to peep my [change log](/colophon/) but my constant commits of “changed theme” and “udpated theme” are not particularly helpful. lol.

The site is still Hugo. I am trying to do a lot of work to make it more accessible, fast, and maybe one day multilingual. So far so good (hit high 90s, and 100s on lighthouse!).

### Color scheming

Park of tweaking things and fucking with this theme caused me to generate about 20 different color schemes. It was fun to go through them all, and I couldn’t pick one right off. I needed to try them on a bit.

In an effort to try them a bit, I made it so every time I post content to this site (a handful of times a week), it will use a different color scheme. This way I can see what they all look like!

## If you see something say something

With all that said - if you notice something, let me know. I really want to make this theme last and be magic. Or at least work and get out of the way of the beautiful content.

Commit message:

New theme update with improved clarity and accessibility 🚀✨
- Revised introduction to clearly express dissatisfaction with previous themes and the iterative process of finding a better design. 🗒️
- Enhanced description of inspiration sources for the theme, emphasizing admiration for minimalism and simplicity in design. 🐻
- Streamlined narrative around using the bearcub theme and the extensive tweaking process that led to personal satisfaction. 🛠️
- Updated reflection on the frequency of theme changes, linking to a commit message generation tool for better documentation. 🤖📜
- Clarified the commitment to improving accessibility, speed, and overall design quality of the blog. 🌍💡

These changes were made to improve readability, maintain the whimsical tone of the blog, and ensure the content reflects the author's journey and mindset more accurately. Happy reading! 🎉

content/post/2024-12-04-new-theme.md, after:

---
date: 2024-12-04 18:00:00-05:00
title: New year, new theme
description:
    Finally updating the theme on the site to something clean and minimal.
    Inspired by bearblog and write.as, making tweaks for better accessibility
    and introducing rotating color schemes.
draft: false
tags:
    - design
    - theme
    - accessibility
---

I know I know. It isn’t quite **2025**. I was getting excited.

For the past few months, I have been unhappy with how messy my blog has looked. It isn't terrible, and it's my own fault (my content architecture is a mess). In response, I whipped up five or so different, really boring "themes" using Tailwind and plain HTML. I really didn't like what I was creating. I stopped and just let it be for a bit.

Then I asked Bluesky and friends (Threads, etc.) what blog designs they admired. Seeing all the suggestions really helped me think through what I wanted.

Turns out I don't want anything too fancy lol. As Dan Sinker said when I showed him my new theme: "I think if you're going for a very minimalist aesthetic you're close." Hah. Yep.

## ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•！

What I settled on is something I have been looking at for ages.

This theme is a very light approximation of the designs of [bear blog](https://bearblog.dev/), [write.as](https://write.as/), and other super minimal writing platforms that I have been admiring for years. I love the simplicity and the focus on the content. I am nothing without my content. ;)

I started with the simple [bearcub](https://github.com/clente/hugo-bearcub/tree/main) hugo theme from [@clente](https://github.com/clente), and tweaked and tweaked. After replacing, and fucking with almost every file in the theme, I eventually got to a place I was happy with. It is familiar enough to my inspiration, but ended up different enough that I think it is close to my own. Regardless, it fits my needs perfectly.

## Now we can begin

I do this every few years. The last time, I think, was 2017. I'm unsure exactly. I tried to peep my [change log](/colophon/), but my constant commits of "changed theme" and "updated theme" are not particularly helpful. lol. Good thing I made my [fancy commit message robot](/2024/03/11/use-an-llm-to-automagically-generate-meaningful-git-commit-messages/).

The site is still Hugo. The content is still a mess. It is basically the same, but now just looks much different.

I am trying to do a lot of work to make it more accessible, faster, and maybe one day multilingual. So far so good (hit high 90s and 100s on lighthouse!).

## If you see something say something

With all that said - if you notice something, let me know. I really want to make this theme last and be magic. Or at least work and get out of the way of the beautiful content.
