---
date: 2024-12-04 18:00:00-05:00
title: New year, new theme
description:
    Finally updating the theme on the site to something clean and minimal.
    Inspired by bearblog and write.as, making tweaks for better accessibility
    and introducing rotating color schemes.
draft: false
tags:
    - design
    - theme
    - accessibility
---

I know I know. It isn’t quite **2025**. I was getting excited.

For the past few months have been unhappy with how messy my blog has been. It isn’t terrible, and it is my own fault. I whipped up about 5 different really boring “themes” that I didn’t really like until I found something that I am happy with.

## ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʕ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•ʔ•̫͡•！

What I settled on is something I have been looking at for ages.

This theme is a very light approximation of the design of [bear blog](https://bearblog.dev/) - which I have always admired, [write.as](https://write.as/), and the design of other super minimal writing platforms.

I started with the simple [bearcub](https://github.com/clente/hugo-bearcub/tree/main) theme from [@clente](https://github.com/clente), and tweaked and tweaked. Eventually getting to a place I was happy with. It is familiar enough, but fits my needs perfectly.

## Now we can begin

I do this every few years. The last time I think was 2017. Unsure exactly. I tried to peep my [change log](/colophon/) but my constant commits of “changed theme” and “udpated theme” are not particularly helpful. lol.

The site is still Hugo. I am trying to do a lot of work to make it more accessible, fast, and maybe one day multilingual. So far so good (hit high 90s, and 100s on lighthouse!).

### Color scheming

Park of tweaking things and fucking with this theme caused me to generate about 20 different color schemes. It was fun to go through them all, and I couldn’t pick one right off. I needed to try them on a bit.

In an effort to try them a bit, I made it so every time I post content to this site (a handful of times a week), it will use a different color scheme. This way I can see what they all look like!

## If you see something say something

With all that said - if you notice something, let me know. I really want to make this theme last and be magic. Or at least work and get out of the way of the beautiful content.
