content/books/on-vicious-worlds-the-kindom-trilogy-2/index.md, before:

---
title: "On Vicious Worlds (The Kindom Trilogy #2)"
date: 2024-10-30T07:00:00.000Z
draft: false
tagline: The fight for freedom meets its fiercest challenge yet in a galaxy on the brink of revolution.
summary: In the captivating sequel to 'These Burning Stars', the Jeveni's newfound freedom faces insurmountable obstacles as they battle the oppressive forces of the Kindom.
tags: [Bethany Jacobs]
layout: book
image: https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1727556924l/207573427._SX98_.jpg
image: 
  - https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1727556924l/207573427._SX98_.jpg
asin: "B0CTZQ4FV6"
yaml: on-vicious-worlds-the-kindom-trilogy-2
author: Bethany Jacobs

---

In 'On Vicious Worlds', the thrilling continuation of the Kindom Trilogy by Bethany Jacobs, readers are transported back to the tumultuous landscape of the Treble star systems, where tensions escalate as alliances and enmities collide. Following the harrowing liberation of the Jeveni on the planet Capamame, led by the indomitable Cleric Chono, cunning caster Jun Ironway, and the unpredictable manipulator, Six, this installment delves deep into the struggles that the newly freed Jeveni face in their quest for autonomy.

As the Secretaries of the Kindom seek to reestablish their dominance, Jun Ironway and Masar Hawks work tirelessly to fend off threats from within while combating rising resentment among their own people towards their former oppressors. Murders and sabotage threaten their precarious peace, forcing characters to navigate a web of deception as they prepare for a climactic reunion that could ignite a revolution.

Bethany Jacobs, an emerging voice in the space opera genre, crafts a narrative rich with conflict and character development, ensuring that readers are on the edge of their seats. With an average rating of 4.50 based on 135 reviews, 'On Vicious Worlds' solidifies Jacobs's reputation as a storyteller capable of weaving intricate plots with compelling personal arcs.

Jacobs, who has garnered recognition for her impactful storytelling, invites readers to strap in for a high-stakes journey filled with twists, revelations, and the indomitable spirit of resistance against tyranny. This book is not just a sequel; it's a profound exploration of the lengths to which individuals will go to achieve freedom and justice.

Commit message:

🚀 Add new book entries and images with detailed metadata updates! 📚
- Created new entries for the following books:
  - "A Little Devil in America" - Added image `B07QWH8DV1.jpg`
  - "Alien Clay" - Added image `B0CL4FVXH9.jpg` and updated `index.md` with new author info, summaries, and Goodreads link.
  - "Camp Zero" - Added image `B0B3YBPB6H.jpg` and updated metadata in `index.md` for a more engaging description.
  - "Laurel Canyon" - Added image `B0046ZS5LG.jpg` and enhanced the book's narrative in `index.md`.
  - "On Vicious Worlds" - Added image `B0CTZQ4FV6.jpg` and enriched the description in `index.md`.
  - "The Caledonian Gambit" - Added image `B06XH5T4WG.jpg` and enhanced storyline in `index.md`.
  - "The City and Its Uncertain Walls" - Added detailed description in `index.md` referring to the book's emotional complexity.
  - "The Deep Sky" - Added image `B0B9KWXN7K.jpg`.
  - "The Vegetarian" - Revised metadata with nuanced descriptions in `index.md`.
  - "There There" - Added image `B075HY1NFB.jpg`.

- 🔄 Updated HTML layouts for better presentation:
  - Modified `list.html` & `single.html` in both books and music layouts for displaying links correctly and behavioral consistency.
  - Ensured images and metadata are now properly rendered for all book entries.

- 🐛 Fixed issues related to broken image links and layout inconsistencies.

Why? Because every book deserves to shine, and an updated, well-crafted entry can significantly improve user experience! 🌟📖

content/books/on-vicious-worlds-the-kindom-trilogy-2/index.md, after:

---
asin: B0CTZQ4FV6
average_rating: '4.35'
book_author: Bethany Jacobs
date: '2024-10-30T00:00:00-07:00'
draft: false
goodreads_link: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207573427-on-vicious-worlds
image:
- B0CTZQ4FV6.jpg
image_url: https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/P/B0CTZQ4FV6.01._SCLZZZZZZZ.jpg
layout: book
num_pages: null
review_rating: '5'
started_at: '2024-10-26T00:00:00-07:00'
summary: In On Vicious Worlds, chaotic forces converge on the Jeveni's newfound freedom
  as they face threats from the Kindom and their own past.
tagline: A gripping continuation of the Kindom Trilogy that challenges the notions
  of freedom and revenge.
tags:
- Bethany Jacobs
title: 'On Vicious Worlds (The Kindom Trilogy #2)'
title_without_series: On Vicious Worlds
yaml: on-vicious-worlds-the-kindom-trilogy-2
---

On Vicious Worlds is the exhilarating sequel in Bethany Jacobs' Kindom Trilogy, following the explosive debut These Burning Stars. With an average rating of 4.50 based on 24 reviews, the narrative unfolds in the backdrop of the distant planet Capamame, where the Jeveni have finally achieved freedom from their oppressors, the Kindom. Under the guidance of leaders like the stoic Cleric Chono, the adventurous caster Jun Ironway, and the enigmatic trickster Six, they navigate the precarious landscape of rebellion and alliances.

Yet as Six and Chono return to the Treble star systems, they quickly learn that freedom comes at a price. The power-hungry Secretaries of the Kindom are mobilizing to reclaim their dominion, setting the stage for a deadly power struggle. Meanwhile, Jun Ironway and the Jeveni collector Masar Hawks brace themselves to shield Capamame from an escalating tide of hostility, exacerbated further by a shadowy saboteur sowing discord.

As old conflicts ignite amidst burgeoning loyalties, the two factions find themselves on a collision course towards a fateful reunion that could spark a revolution. However, the legacy of Esek Nightfoot looms large—his past actions may hold dire consequences for their fight for survival.

Bethany Jacobs weaves a compelling tale of galactic conflict that resonates with themes of freedom, identity, and the scars left by betrayal. Readers will be drawn into this richly constructed universe, where every character grapples with their motives and the repercussions of their choices.
