content/books/_index.md, before:

---
title: Books
lastmod: "2017-12-04"

nofeed: true
draft: false
url: /media/books
description: "A collection of books I've read and my thoughts about them"
---

# Books I've Read

I read a lot of books. Here is my read book list.

<details>
    <summary>Reading Stats:</summary>

- **2025** - {{< book-count 2025 >}}, {{< page-count 2025 >}}
- **2024** - {{< book-count 2024 >}}, {{< page-count 2024 >}}
- **2023** - {{< book-count 2023 >}}, {{< page-count 2023 >}}
- **2022** - {{< book-count 2022 2023 >}}, {{< page-count 2022 >}}
- **2021** - {{< book-count 2021 >}}, {{< page-count 2021 >}}
- **2020** - {{< book-count 2020 >}}, {{< page-count 2020 >}}
- **2019** - {{< book-count 2019 >}}, {{< page-count 2019 >}}
- **2018** - {{< book-count 2018 >}}, {{< page-count 2018 >}}
- **2017** - {{< book-count 2017 >}}, {{< page-count 2017 >}}
- **2016** - {{< book-count 2016 >}}, {{< page-count 2016 >}}
- **2015** - {{< book-count 2015 >}}, {{< page-count 2015 >}}
- **2014** - {{< book-count 2014 >}}, {{< page-count 2014 >}}

</details>

Below you'll find my recent reads with reviews and thoughts.

---

Commit message:

🚀 Update book URL and enhance navigation! 📚
- Changed the URL for the books page from `/media/books` to `/media/books/list` to provide a clearer indication of the content.
- Added a link inviting users to view recent reads in a grid format for better UX on the books page. 🕵️‍♂️
- Made a minor indentation fix in the music grid page for cleaner YAML formatting.

These changes were made to improve user navigation and maintain consistency across the site. Now visitors can effortlessly find their way around the sweet world of books and music! 🎉📖🎶

content/books/_index.md, after:

---
title: Books
lastmod: "2017-12-04"

nofeed: true
draft: false
url: /media/books/list
description: "A collection of books I've read and my thoughts about them"
---

# Books I've Read

I read a lot of books. Here is my read book list.

<details>
    <summary>Reading Stats:</summary>

- **2025** - {{< book-count 2025 >}}, {{< page-count 2025 >}}
- **2024** - {{< book-count 2024 >}}, {{< page-count 2024 >}}
- **2023** - {{< book-count 2023 >}}, {{< page-count 2023 >}}
- **2022** - {{< book-count 2022 2023 >}}, {{< page-count 2022 >}}
- **2021** - {{< book-count 2021 >}}, {{< page-count 2021 >}}
- **2020** - {{< book-count 2020 >}}, {{< page-count 2020 >}}
- **2019** - {{< book-count 2019 >}}, {{< page-count 2019 >}}
- **2018** - {{< book-count 2018 >}}, {{< page-count 2018 >}}
- **2017** - {{< book-count 2017 >}}, {{< page-count 2017 >}}
- **2016** - {{< book-count 2016 >}}, {{< page-count 2016 >}}
- **2015** - {{< book-count 2015 >}}, {{< page-count 2015 >}}
- **2014** - {{< book-count 2014 >}}, {{< page-count 2014 >}}

</details>

Below you'll find my recent reads with reviews and thoughts. You can also [view this as a grid](/media/books/grid).

---
